how's it going guys I'm Sydney from
phone.com and today Microsoft gave us a
sneak peak of its newest version of
Windows Phone Windows Phone 8 and they
talked about a lot of new features i'm
going to highlight some of them in this
video and also kind of tell you guys
what i think of them so first of all
let's get the bad news out of the way
windows phone 8 will not be coming to
current windows phone devices I know it
really sucks hopefully this is the only
time Microsoft pulls something like this
otherwise a lot of though gonna be
really upset however devices current
devices will be getting an update called
windows phone 7.8 and it will come with
some of the new features like the Start
screen which which I'll talk about in a
minute bless the bad news let's move on
to the good news and all the cool new
features so first of all a big thing is
that Windows Phone 8 will officially
support multi-core processors and the
cool thing is that not only will it
support dual-core processors and quad
core processors but it'll supports
virtually any number of cores they
eventually use all the way up to 64
cores if we eventually use that so its
future proof which is nice but also
means that this fall we will have
dual-core processors in Windows phones
or quad core processors if manufacturers
decide to do that also another hardware
upgrade they will now have support for
HD displays there's actually three
resolutions that Microsoft will be
supporting with Windows Phone 8 one of
those is 1280 by 720 and support for
micro SD cards which was kind of a
feature with Windows Phone 7 but it
didn't really work out the way that
Microsoft wanted to and so to avoid all
the trouble and confusion most
manufacturers just ditched it completely
but now with Windows Phone 8 micro SD
cards will be completely supported to
have expandable memory now one thing
that a lot of people talk about with
Windows Phone is the Start screen they
wanted to be more customizable this is
under that Aaron harps on all the time
and I agree with him it would
be nice if we could choose the size of
the apps instead of like okay the
messaging app has to be a square instead
of a rectangle well now with Windows
Phone 8 you can do that you can decide
to have its be a rectangle there's
actually three sizes you can have the
rectangle the square and then there's an
even smaller size for the apps that
maybe don't use too much you don't need
a whole lot of information you just kind
of want a little shortcut there on your
Start screen you can use one of those
three app sizes and then that gap on the
right side of the home screen where
there was the arrow to slide over to the
complete list of your apps that's gone
so now those are live tiles they take up
the entire Start screen personally I
kind of don't like this it might take a
little bit of getting used to because
now it just seems more clutter to have
tons of tiles they're all different
sizes taking up the entire screen the
cool thing will be whenever developers
start taking advantage of these new
sizes but they have different
functionalities or different features
for the larger live tiles or for the
smaller live tiles that'll be pretty
cool to see now you guys probably know
by now that Microsoft and Nokia partner
in a while back came out with some
pretty cool windows phone devices and
Lumia 900 boy the best Windows Phone
device on the market but now they're
doing even more with his partnership
because starting with Windows Phone 8
all windows phone devices will use nokia
maps as the first party Maps application
so being a Maps is gone it will now be
Nokia Maps the nice thing about this is
that Windows Phone will now have turn by
turn navigation which will definitely be
nice it also means that you'll be able
to use your maps offline so if you don't
have a data connection you can still
have access to your maps and it means to
that other countries where being Maps
wasn't available they will now have
access to maps on their windows phone
devices because Nokia Maps is a global
maps application and there's one cool
new feature that Microsoft introduced
and is called wallet and it was kind of
an idea that we've seen before you have
google wallets with NFC payments you can
leave your credit cards apple just
introduced passbook where you can have
your cards in there and have access to
them but wallet really brings all of
that together so when you first open the
app you can see all of your cards
whether there are debit cards credit
cards rewards cards library cards any
membership money-related cards you have
will be listed in the in this app and
then to the right there's a section for
deals where you can have stored coupons
which is related to another feature so
that's not let anything new and we've
seen that before with Google wallets
Apple's passbook application but the
cool thing is that when you select a
card you can see tons of information
about that account how much money you
have transactions you can perform
transactions and so it's not just the
card that you can use to make payments
because obviously that's a feature you
can use your credit card to make an NFC
payment but you can also see detailed
information about that card now we've
been hearing a lot about skype
integration you know microsoft bought
skype and so the assumption was that
eventually we would see a skype
integration in windows phone microsoft
detailed that yes there would be some
sort of skype integration but it's not
exactly what everyone thought the way it
works is that any VoIP application can
plug into the windows phone calling
feature so that it basically becomes
integrated into the software microsoft
also announced some updates to internet
explorer with ie10 that will be coming
to Windows Phone 8 it's faster has some
security enhancements they also
announced some cool enterprise features
and also a speech function now everyone
kind of thought will Microsoft do
something to compete with Siri or you
know Samsung has s voice well Microsoft
did do something to compete with that
but they did it in a way that really I
don't think anyone was expecting so
Microsoft has created standard ap is for
speech recognition that each app
developer can take advantage of and use
in their app so this speech recognition
is not necessarily a feature of the
phone or the operating system but it's
really each individual app that will
have the function and you'll be able to
communicate with that app so it's kind
of different
unique and on the one hand i'm excited
to see it it's kind of going to be kind
of cool to see it implemented in a
different way but at the same time I'm
thinking would it be easier to just
touch the screen i don't know i'll have
to see how it plays out but it's
definitely a unique way of implementing
this feature now when can we expect to
see it windows phone 8 0 microsoft's
didn't have a lot of details but they
said they're planning for a fall release
that's when we should see some new
phones they said some of their hardware
partners will be nokia HTC huawei and
someone else that i can't remember
samsung so those are some of the
hardware partners we should see some of
those windows phone 8 devices from them
in the fall also the windows phone 7.8
update that i mentioned in the beginning
that will be available after windows
phone 8 is released again this fall so
those are the new features at least the
ones that Microsoft showed us they did
kind of hints that there were more UI
features and updates but they were going
to show us them at a later date or
another event so keep your eyes on phone
no commas to keep you more updated on
this and let me know what you think of
these new features about Windows Phone 8
are you excited are you upset about not
getting the updates is there something
that you don't like let me know in the
comments below other than that i'm
sydney from phone.com thanks for
watching this recap video and i will see
you guys later bye